# Ch12. Distributed Database

* Distributed database management system \(DDBMS\): Governs storage and processing of logically related data over interconnected computer systems 
  * Data and processing functions are distributed among seversal sites 
* Centralized database management system 
  * Required that corporate data be stored in a single central site 
  * Data access provided through dumb terminals

Factors That Aided DDBMS to Cope With Technological Advancement 

* Acceptance of Internet as a platform for business 
* Mobile wireless revolution
* Usage of application as a service 
* Focus on mobile business intelligence

Desirability of Distributed DBMS Over Centralized DBMS

* Performance degradation 
* High costs 
* Reliability problems 
* Scalability problems 
* Organizational rigidity

Pros:

* Data are located near greatest demand site 
* Faster data access and processing 
* Growth facilitation 
* Improved communications 
* Reduced operating costs 
* User-friendly interface 
* Less danger of a single point failure 
* Processor independence

Cons:

* Complexity of management and control 
* Technological difficulty 
* Security 
* Lack of standards 
* Increased storage and infrastructure requirements 
* Increased training cost
* Costs incurred due to the requirement of duplicated infrastructure

### Distributed Processing and Distributed Databases

* n distributed processing, a database’s logical processing is shared among two or more physically independent sites that are connected through a network
* Distributed database: Stores logically related database over two or more physically independent sites via computer network
  * Database fragments: Database composed of many parts in distributed database system

A fully distributed database management system must perform all of the functions of a centralized DBMS, as follows:

1.  Receive the request of an application or end user. 
2. 2. Validate, analyze, and decompose the request. The request might include mathematical and logical operations such as the following: Select all customers with a balance greater than $1,000. The request might require data from only a single table, or it might require access to several tables. 
3. 3. Map the request’s logical-to-physical data components. 
4. 4. Decompose the request into several disk I/O operations. 
5. 5. Search for, locate, read, and validate the data. 
6. 6. Ensure database consistency, security, and integrity. 
7. 7. Validate the data for the conditions, if any, specified by the request. 
8. 8. Present the selected data in the required format.

### DDBMS Component

The DDBMS must include at least the following components:

* Computer workstations or remote devices \(sites or nodes\) that form the network system. The distributed database system must be independent of the computer system hardware. 
* Network hardware and software components that reside in each workstation or device. The network components allow all sites to interact and exchange data. Because the components—computers, operating systems, network hardware, and so on—are likely to be supplied by different vendors, it is best to ensure that distributed database functions can be run on multiple platforms. 
* Communications media that carry the data from one node to another. The DDBMS must be communications media-independent; that is, it must be able to support several types of communications media. 
* The **transaction processor \(TP\)**, which is the software component found in each computer or device that **requests data**. The transaction processor receives and processes the application’s remote and local data requests. The TP is also known as the application processor \(AP\) or the transaction manager \(TM\). 
* The **data processor \(DP\)**, which is the software component residing on each computer or device that **stores and retrieves data located at the site**. The DP is also known as the data manager \(DM\). A data processor may even be a centralized DBMS.

### Levels of Data and Process Distribution

In the single-site processing, single-site data \(SPSD\) scenario, 

* all processing is done on a single host computer 
* all data are stored on the host computer’s local disk system. 
* Processing cannot be done on the end user’s side of the system. 
* DBMS is accessed by dumb terminal

Multiple-Site Processing, Single-Site Data \(MPSD\)

* Multiple processes run on different computers sharing a single data repository 
* Require network file server running conventional applications 
  * Accessed through LAN 
* Client/server architecture 
  * Reduces network traffic 
  * Processing is distributed 
  * Supports data at multiple sites

Multiple-Site Processing, Single-SiteData \(MPSD\)

* Fully distributed database management system
* Support multiple data processors and transaction processors at multiple sites 
* Classification of DDBMS depending on the level of support for various types of databases 
* Homogeneous: Integrate multiple instances of same DBMS over a network 
* Heterogeneous: Integrate different types of DBMSs 
* Fully heterogeneous: Support different DBMSs, each supporting different data model

